---
title: "FANGO 1000"
titleJustified: "FANGO 1000"
description: Some tales last forever, others are buried in mud
---

Fango 1000 is a fully onchain text-based role playing game where players compete for narrative control. The game is set in the fictional Italian village of Fango circa 1173, where a trove containing a thousand chronicles has suddenly appeared inside a monastery - each describing how humans from another time train a mysterious 'machine intelligence' for an unknown task. Players join one of three factions with conflicting worldviews and compete to tell stories about what secret the machine may hold. Players can throw mud, or 'fango' in Italian, at stories they dislike - a reference to MUD, the open source blockchain development framework used to create the game.

The chronicles in the game contain a historical record of actions from a different cinematic universe, generated by players of dmstfctn's AI training game <a href="https://dmstfctn.net/related-matters/godmode-epochs/" target="_blank">Godmode Epochs</a> (2023), and stored on a blockchain. Fango 1000 then invites players to write stories and contest them through consensus, providing a framework for weaving 'soft' narratives around a set of 'hard' records. 

Fango 1000 is the first prototype of a 'Large Lore Model', a concept advanced in an essay of the same name by dmstfctn, Eva Jäger and Alasdair Milne to address the susceptibility of fully onchain simulations to (narrative) hegemony or capture. <a href="https://aw.network/posts/large-lore-models" target="_blank">Large Lore Models</a> is included in 'Autonomous Worlds N1', published by Metalabel (2024). Fango 1000 can be freely played on <a href="https://fango1000.dmstfctn.net" target="_blank">fango1000.dmstfctn.net</a>.